---
layout: post
title: Vietnam - [master]
category: travel
image: /x/assets/photos/.jpg
published: false
---

The original idea was to start in Thailand, and then work our way clockwise - Myanmar to Laos to Vietnam to Cambodia. As logistics and visas started to gel, we changed course abruptly. We skipped over Thailand by flying directly to Cambodia, and then crossed into Vietnam on a bus a week later. The 20 days that followed were unlike anything we could have expected.

[something about how young the population is, old people hold grudges about the war, 90% have at least 1 scooter. Vietnam is incredibly young, with a large percentage of their population under the age of 30.]

#Saigon
Saigon, officially known as Ho Chi Minh City or HCMC, is the biggest city in Vietnam. It makes Phnom Penh feel like a suburb. If Cambodian traffic flowed predictably like blood supporting a body, Vietnamese traffic gushed like a river overflowing its banks. Traffic lights were still suggestions, but now sidewalks and curbs were treated like access roads. And the horns. Let me tell you about the horns. If there was one constant in this country, it was the unpausing, relentlessly irritating sound of vehicles honking at each other for no reason other than to confirm their existence.  MEEEEP.

I won't attempt to explain the Vietnam War (or as the Vietnamese say, the "American War"). I've read the textbooks and watched the movies. I also have my own coloring. My mom used to play me old crackling cassette tapes that her brother, my uncle, recorded of his own voice while deployed overseas. She told stories of anti-war rallies and chants ("Ho ho, Ho Chi Minh is gonna win") and about her cousins who left pieces of their bodies and their minds in a foreign land. 

In an attempt to educate ourselves, we took a speedboat to the Cu Chi tunnels where tourists are invited to crawl through several meters of underground tunnels used by the Vietnamese to thwart opposing forces. You can see the guts of an American tank, various types of Vietnamese traps, and mannequin-adorned dioramas of daily life during the war. The Vietnamese were downright thrifty - fashioning shoes out of car tires and inner tubes, and re-using abandoned american equipment. They camped out in the woods, hammocks slung between trees. Dead soldiers have been found resting in their hammocks, 60 feet of the ground as the trees continued to grow.

We had been warned that the tour came with a propaganda video full of anti-American sentiment, but instead we found a level headed tour guide who explained that, in the end, there were no winners. 

After 3 days in Siagon, we were ready to move on. The plan was to trace the coastline on our way north, but Vietnam had a big surprise: Tét. Asian countries celebrate the lunar new year as their biggest holiday of the year, and Vietnam's was bearing down on us. We knew in advance it was happening but we didn't know that for one week, transportation is impossible and everything is closed. We discovered that there wasn't a single domestic bus, train, or plane ticket available - they had all sold out months ago.  We had the option to hire a private car which would get us to our first stop, but there was no guarantee of further transportation until the holiday ended. We decided to take matters into our own hands.  Enter Mini Mao, or as I liked to call him, "A Goddamn Miracle".

While scouring the internet for escape options, I came across a Craigslist posting, scrawled in terrible English, offering a Honda Win 100c motorbike for $250. It came with helmets, a luggage rack, and most importantly, a working horn. It turned out that the bike was owned by a French photographer who had just made the journey from Hanoi. I withdrew just over 3 million Vietnamese Dong from the closest ATM and secured our ticket out of town. 

#Mui Ne
Our first stop was the tiny fishing village of Mui Ne. Photos will tell you that the bay is chock full of teacup-esque corracle fishing vessels, and a sniff of the air will tell you they make fish sauce with the corracle haul. What you have to find out on your own is that Mui Ne is lousy with Russian tourists. Because of direct flights from Moscow, local hotels are terrorized by speedos and techno music. Case in point: our hotel room mini-bar was barren except for 20-ounce bottles of Vodka.

By the pool, we watched a mother photograph her scantily clad daughter for what we could only assume was an application to the Future Mrs. Putin Beauty Pageant and decided to high tail it out of there.

#Dalat
With the salt water fading from the air, we rumbled through unpaved mountain passes until we arrived at a former French Colonial hill station called Dalat. The only casualty was a broken suspension coil, which required fixing before we could proceed. Dalat was a welcome break from the heat and dust of the coastline, although the shadow of Tet was looming ever larger. We stayed at a bed and breakfast run by a German ex-pat and his kooky sister. While a local shop worked on Mini Mao, we practiced Vietnamese intonations with the hotel staff, and traded tongue twisters in as many languages as we could remember. Dalat didn't have much to offer two road weary explorers other than peace and quiet. One night we stumbled upon a local noodle shop offering "Hoi An Noodles" which were the best thing we'd eaten in days, and it got us excited about moving forward.

#Nha Trang
With brand new suspension holding up the 20kg of luggage and two passengers, we began the long, slow, winding descent back to the coast line. We passed waterfalls and the smoking engines of other travelers whose steeds didn't have the strength to go uphill in the beating sun. Nha Trang, another Russian tourist stronghold, was where we would experience the official Lunar New Year festivities. 

Coincidentally, friends from New York also traveling through Vietnam arrived in Nha Trang at the same time. We excitedly blabbed about where we had been, and then explored the town together. Perhaps too excitedly. I promptly got a mixture of food and alcohol poisoning and spent much of the next 24 hours barfing on the side of the road.

Tet proved to be uneventful. Restaurants closed early to allow their staff to be with family, and the town put on their finest clothes to sit in gridlocked scoot ertraffic listening to local singers belt out traditional tunes. Liz and I bought some sparklers which we lit on the beach. Without much fanfare, the biggest obstacle in our journey was over.

The original itinerary had us halfway to Hanoi by now, so we bought two seats on an overnight train to Hoi An. Vietnamese trains are a trip. Their website time tables seem deliberately cryptic, and they only accept credit cards issued by local banks, so you are forced to appear at the station and stand in long lines. Depending on the direction and popularity of the route, the train will have a combination of cars ranging from cushioned sleepers to hard seats. Sometimes the cars have air conditioning. The hard seats are wooden benches with backs arranged at 90 degrees to the floor. We weren't able to get a sleeping car, but we were very happy to score soft seats. The hitch was that this train didn't have a cargo car, so Mini Mao had to travel by bus.

Just after midnight, we showed up at the train station and climbed into an all-wooden train car from 1975. Locals wore cotton face masks which made sense because the air was about as thick and humid as a sauna. We also discovered once the train started moving that our seats faced backwards. For the next 10 hours, we hurtled through the Vietnamese countryside at what felt like 100 miles per hour, in pitch black. I managed to sleep through most of it, but upon arrival, Liz announced that we would not be taking the train again. 

#Hoi An
The train arrived in Da Nang, which is the biggest city in central Vietnam, but our target was Hoi An, a quaint town 30 minutes south. We stayed one night in Da Nang, exploring street markets and eating delicious Banh Mi Ga. 

The next morning we hired a taxi to take us to Hoi An. I like to think that I have a pretty solid resistance to car sickness. I've spent hours on bumpy roads while crossing the Serengeti, and I've resisted the urge to barf while careening over canyons inside Mexican tour buses. This particular cab driver almost made me lose my cookies.  His cruising speed was somewhere around 60 miles per hour, regardless of highway or residential city street. Most of the trip was spent driving against oncoming traffic as he tried to pass other vehicles, sometimes coming so close that I found myself clenching my butt checks and gripping the overhead handhold, praying for it to end. 

Hoi An itself is as quaint and beautiful as you would expect from a UNESCO world heritage site. Well kept "shop house" buildings remain in use - now hawking silk goods and custom clothing. For $100 you can get a tailored suit made to your specifications, ready the next day.

Local kids on dates took selfie photos on the various picturesque bridges, and competed in carnival style games to impress each other. We stayed just far enough outside of town that when it was time to sleep, the pop music blasting loudspeakers were out of earshot. 

Since trains were no longer being considered for transportation, but feeling like our time in Vietnam was coming to an end, we bought plane tickets to Hanoi and arranged for Mini Mao to be transported by bus once again.

#Hanoi
Finally, Hanoi. The finish line to our adventure in this country. The guide books promised beer cheaper than water and delicious food on every corner.  The beer promise was fulfilled: at a nearby "Bia Hoi Corner", nestled in the heart of the backpacker area, we found mugs of fresh draught beer for 25 cents. The food, on the other hand, was a disappointment. We were unable to find several of the recommended restaurants. After choosing a random Pho restaurant out of desperation, Liz promptly got food poisoning. 

We decided to go on one last adventure. Located 3 hours outside of Hanoi are the emerald green waters of Ha Long Bay. We booked an overnight stay on one of the "junk boats" that patrol the area. With barely a minute wasted, the guides and crew puttered over to the natural caves and not-so-natural beaches that can be found there. They lowered kayaks into the water and sent us under cliff overhangs to throw food at wild monkeys, and then raced back to the marina so we could get in our shuttles before the next passengers boarded. 

There was one big task left: sell Mini Mao. When I bought the bike, the story was that these machines are bought and sold for a consistent $250. The reality is that Saigon had a sellers market with Tet advancing, and Hanoi was now flush with tourists desperately trying to unload their vehicles. I posted an ad on the local craigslist equivalents, only to watch the listing disappear off the front page, pushed down by dozens of other offerings. I went from $250 to $200 to $150 in a matter of hours without a single bite. Finally, I used the lobby computer to print advertisements which I taped to the front and back of my shirt. I walked back to the "Bia Hoi Corner" where several people made offers on the bike and a couple people congratulated me on the great, if not embarassing, idea.

With hours to go before our flight to Laos, I unloaded Mini Mao to a group of locals. A bit of a hassle, but a hell of a story.

#The Itinerary
If you'd like to do as we have, here are the steps to reproduce the experience:

1. Take a bus across the border from Phnom Penh to Saigon/HCMC
2. Charter a speedboat to Cu Chi Tunnels
3. Buy a motorcycle and drive along the coastline to Mui Ne
4. Drive into the mountains to Dalat
5. Drive back to the coastline to Nha Trang
6. Take an overnight train to Da Nang
7. Hire a taxi and drive to Hoi An
8. Fly to Hanoi
9. Book a night on a junk boat on Ha Long Bay
10. Fly to Vientiene, Laos