---
layout: post
title: Laos - A Breath of Fresh Air
category: travel
image: /assets/photos/laos-cover.jpg
published: false
---
After Vietnam, we were were looking for something at a slower pace. As we drove through our last bits of hectic Hanoi traffic, Liz and I felt pretty accomplished but also exhausted. We covered a lot of ground. Ironically, arriving at Hanoi International Airport had all the creature comforts of home. We discovered that Vietnam Airlines is a Skyteam member, and we had access to the lounge thanks to our Delta loyalty. There we basked in freely available wifi, comfortable uncrowded chairs, and a distinct lack of litter on the ground.

Our first stop was Vientiane, Laos' capital city. Situated across the river from Thailand, both currencies are used freely and a local's daily life might be split between lunch in Laos and dinner in Thailand.

We had heard rumors that Vientiane had suffered from bed bugs in the past, so we opted for a slightly more expensive chain style hotel rather than dragging out our silk sleeping bags in a hostel and waking up covered in bites.

First impressions - holy shit, it's quiet here!

A typical exchange between Liz and me:

Liz: "Do you hear that?"
Eli: "What?"
Liz: "That. The lack of honking."
Eli: "MEEEP."

Vientiane felt a little sleepy. All the areas recommended in the guidebook were within walking distance of our hotel, which was nestled between embassies, the Presidential Palace. We visited their "arc de triump" which is also known as the runway to nowhere. As the story goes, America donated a ton of cement so Laos could build a runway. Instead, they used it to build their own Arc de Triumph.

We took a tuk tuk to the riverside where we watched a group fitness dance class. The river was so low that you could climb down the banks and walk along the exposed sandy bottom.

We used the downtime to catch up on administrative work. We reviewed every hotel we'd stayed at, and started planning the logistics for the move to Luang Prabang.  

#Our favorite city
We had the option of taking a bus to Luang Prabang but reviews said the route was long, bumpy and overall pretty trecherous. We debated for about 30 seconds and booked a flight instead.

Smaller than Vientiane, Luang Prabang was even more relaxng. 















